Title: Mentoring Mozilla Contributors of EWU
Date: 2014-06-08 01:41
Author: Ratul
Tags: mentoring
Slug: mentoring-mozilla-contributors-of-ewu

Last Thursday we went to East West University (EWU) to mentor the new
contributors on how to get involved with Mozilla's cool projects. They
recently had a MozAwareness Booth at their campus, so all of the
participants were very eager to know all the tricks and tips! They were
so hyped up after the sessions that some of them started contributing
right away! Here is a part of the contributors:

![Image](http://minhazratul.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/14167589987_cca612a967_b.jpg?w=650)

We started out for EWU a bit late but got there right in time for the
event. The lab booked for this event was already house full when we
stepped into it :D Around 40 participants were present at the time. As a
matter of fact, [Dr. Md. Nawab Yousuf Ali](http://ewubd.edu/~nawab/)
sir, Chairperson of the CSE department of EWU was there to welcome us
with a short but resourceful speech.

[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="650"]![Honorable Chairperson of
CSE Department,
EWU](http://minhazratul.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/10321042_680569675347387_7925741188415757030_o.jpg?w=650)
Honorable Chairperson of CSE Department, EWU[/caption]

[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="650"]![House
full!](http://minhazratul.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/14355123161_9082cb58a0_b.jpg?w=650)
House full![/caption]

We started the Contributor Mentoring day with an introduction to
Mozilla. The participants already had a gross idea of what Mozilla is
and what philosophy drives us, but this introduction session cleared up
lots of confusions like whether all Mozilla's projects are open source
or not and stuff like this. This session was taken by me :D

[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="650"]![Me, asking question
instead of answering
:3](http://minhazratul.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/14352464062_4fb627e883_b.jpg?w=650)
Me, asking question instead of answering :3[/caption]

After answering all the curious questions from the participants we gave
them hands on tour of IRC, the mailing lists, different Facebook groups
of Mozilla. Other than a little problem with IRC chat, they got through
all these steps of getting connected to Mozilla Bangladesh.

It was Zarin who gave them idea of the Facebook groups and how to get
help on these groups. The also talked about WoMoz and Webmaker. An
interesting aspect was that many male and female participants were
equally interested in WoMoz, which proves their willingness to promote
women in the field of technology. Webmaker was another project that got
lots of applause because of it's innovativeness.

[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="650"]![Zarin talking about
Webmaker](http://minhazratul.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/14378620113_ddeba227fe_b.jpg?w=650)
Zarin talking about Webmaker[/caption]

After Zarin, Iqram came up with MDN and SuMo. Many of the participants
who work as web developers already knew about MDN so Iqram showed them
how we localized almost all of the MDN in to Bangla. He also coverd
SuMo, describing it as,"One stop helpline for Mozillians."

[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="650"]![Iqram explaining the
importance of
MDN](http://minhazratul.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/14354014285_86c066f0bf_b.jpg?w=650)
Iqram explaining the importance of MDN[/caption]

After we finished guiding the participants through all the communication
channels, there was a question and answer session conducted by Iqram.
Whatever confusion they new Mozillians had was wiped clean, thanks to
him! :D

Finally, we gave the participants stickers and other swags. For all
their effort and work we gave lanyards to the volunteers and a Firefox
T-shirt to [Sayed Mohammad
Amir](https://mozillians.org/en-US/u/smamir.tuhin/), the club lead of
Firefox@EWU club.

[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="650"]![Firefox@EWU's Club Lead
Amir](http://minhazratul.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/14331010916_3a28f556cc_b.jpg?w=650)
Firefox@EWU's Club Lead Amir[/caption]

[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="650"]![Fahmida, an WoMoz from
EWU](http://minhazratul.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/14167506879_257eb5169f_b.jpg?w=650)
Fahmida, an WoMoz from EWU[/caption]

The event was a total success, and it ended with a few group photos and
selfies :D

[gallery type="rectangular" link="none" ids="1620,1619,1617"]

[Here](http://maruffislamm.wordpress.com/2014/06/06/মজিলা-কন্ট্রিবিউটর-মেন্ট/)
is another blog post by Maruf Islam about the event(Bangla). He is an
active Firefox Student Ambassador from EWU who likes to talk about
Firefox OS.

Photos:

[1]
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/124415049@N04/sets/72157644618326097/>  
[2]
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/smamir_tuhin/sets/72157644626937020/>

 
